<h2 align="center"> Parallel Computing MPI Iterative System </h2>

<h6> 

Program with the MPI paradigm for distributed memory systems.

Develop a program that implements the following iterative scheme for k=0..m.
Bearing in mind that the vector x0 will be the unit vector (= 1,1,....1). The value of the number of iterations (m) will be specified as an argument. The size of the vectors will be equal to N=15000.

Iteration 1: x1 = Mx0

Iteration 2: x2 = M x1; Find the largest absolute value of x2, if it is greater than the literal value 25.0,
convert x2 to values between [-1,1], dividing all elements by that value.

Iteration 3: x3 = M x2; Find the greatest absolute value of x3, if it is greater than the literal value 25.0,
convert x3 to values between [-1,1], and dividing all elements by that value.

...

The matrix M (square NxN size) will be stored in a binary file, if this file does not exist, the values of M are generated, with elements equal to 1 on the diagonal and the rest will be generated randomly or pseudo-randomly and will be between -50.0 < x < 50.0, so that the non-diagonal elements of the lower triangular half will be positive and of the upper triangular half negative.

The number of iterations (m) and filenames will be passed in the execution statement. M will be a row-by-row reserved array, ie double pointer. Matrix elements and vectors are of type double. Only the root process reads and writes files.

The output text file, generated by the "root" will have the following information: file name of the matrix, name of the output file, elements with the highest absolute value obtained, number of processes used, execution time from just before starting iterations until the end of execution.

It is mandatory to use collective communications in those processes that admit it.
IMPORTANT: Use the resources (memory) strictly necessary.

Compile Sentence:
➔ mpicc -o it MPI_iterativeSystem.c

Execution Sentence:
➔ mpirun -np 4 it matrix.bin 5 data.txt




</h6>
